Add Link API docs (#20308)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/api-docs/hcp-link.mdx

---
layout: api
page_title: HCP Linking HTTP API
description: The Link resource allows for linking your cluster to HCP Consul Central.
---

# Link HTTP API

> 

Author: Done!
```
The `/api/hcp/v2/link/global` endpoint allows you to link your Consul cluster to HCP Consul Central.
```

-> **1.18.0+:** The Link API is available in Consul versions 1.18.0 and newer.

## Establish or Update Link to HCP Consul Central

This endpoint creates or updates a Link, which establishes a connection with HCP Consul Central.

| Method | Path                          | Produces           |
| ------ | ----------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `PUT`  | `/api/hcp/v2/link/global`     | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/consul/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes     | Agent Caching | ACL Required                   |
| ---------------- | --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------ |

> | `NO`             | `stale`, `consistent` | `none`        | `operator:write`, `acl:write`  |

Author: I had a question about this table (and the similar ones below) that I asked in a [thread here](https://hashicorp.slack.com/archives/C04AM35BFQT/p1705961384480169). This is my best guess at filling out this table but not sure if it's correct.

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `data` `(object: <required>)`

  - `resourceId` `(string: <required>)` - The ID of the HCP Consul Central cluster to link to. Has the format of:
    `organization/<orgID>/project/<projectID>/hashicorp.consul.global-network-manager.cluster/<clusterName>`

  - `clientId` `(string: <required>)` - The ID used to authenticate to HCP, which is returned as part of the HCP
    Consul Central cluster creation. It can also be obtained by fetching the HCP Consul Central cluster secrets.

  - `clientSecret` `(string: <required>)` - The secret used to authenticate to HCP, which is returned as part of the
    HCP Consul Central cluster creation. It can also be obtained by fetching the HCP Consul Central cluster secrets.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "data": {
    "resourceId": "organization/c0bf7aac-7690-4905-a8aa-889df1510314/project/6e82a47b-79af-4920-ad42-c0f74421ab52/hashicorp.consul.global-network-manager.cluster/my-cluster",

>     "clientId": "3jz6zk2tlr802htzwquczlxlsrohlpm5",

Author: The clientId/clientSecret I used here are random strings I generated and pasted in place of the real ones that I used to generate these samples.

   --header "X-Consul-Token: 9cdjse6c-2dia-3720-81fe-5dae3k714a6e" \
   --data @payload.json \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/api/hcp/v2/link/global
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "clientId": "3jz6zk2tlr802htzwquczlxlsrohlpm5",
    "clientSecret": "07ywcvaqmg1f8ko9eq4julep2tfglnv4o18rz3py9dik4ywox0ytoscycn39o4vs",
    "resourceId": "organization/c0bf7aac-7690-4905-a8aa-889df1510314/project/6e82a47b-79af-4920-ad42-c0f74421ab52/hashicorp.consul.global-network-manager.cluster/my-cluster"
  },
  "generation": "01HMHTHZND8VJDXHHJBKDR4TTA",
  "id": {
    "name": "global",
    "tenancy": {
      "peerName": "local"
    },
    "type": {
      "group": "hcp",
      "groupVersion": "v2",
      "kind": "Link"
    },
    "uid": "01HMHTHZND8VJDXHHJBGY1KG0F"
  },
  "version": "60"
}
```

### Link API vs. Configuration-based Linking

The Link API described here is an alternative method to accomplish the same thing as [configuration-based linking](/consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#self-managed-hcp-parameters). You should generally only choose one method or the other for linking your cluster, not both. If you do use both methods, they interract in the following ways:

> * Values set in the configuration will take precedence over what was set in the API/CLI when Consul is started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When Consul is started, values set in the `cloud` configuration will take precedence over what was previously set by the API or CLI.
```

Feel free to modify, but I wanted to move the "when consul is started" to the beginning of the sentence so that it's clear that the overwrite only happens at startup.

> * SMCC can only be unlinked by the API/CLI, regardless of if they were established via configuration or API/CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Clusters can only be unlinked from HCP Consul Central by the API or CLI, regardless of if they were established via configuration, API, or CLI.
```

Again, you don't have to use this exact suggestion, but I mostly just wanted to remove the `SMCC` abbreviation!
